after days of discussions the United
States says it is now ready to support a
new United Nations resolution for Gaza
where the UN says there is a growing
risk of famine the apparent diplomatic
breakthrough at the security Council
comes as Israel intensifies its
bombardment of the Gaza Strip in both
the North and the South making the
delivery of Aid increasingly difficult a
new UN report is warning that more than
half a million people a quarter of
gaza's population now face extreme
hunger
we'll have more on that in a moment but
first let's hear from Washington's
ambassador to the UN who has expressed
optimism that a new Security Council
vote on Gaza can now go ahead uh we have
worked hard and diligently over the
course of the past week uh with uh the
amadis uh with others with Egypt to come
up with a resolution that uh we can
support and we do have that resolution
now we're ready to vote on it the draft
resolution is not watered down the draft
resolution is a very strong resolution
that is fully supported by the Arab
group that provides them uh what they
feel is needed to get humanitarian
assistance on the
ground for more I'm now joined by DW
Middle East analyst Shani rosanes Shany
well welcome the the US has been the
main objector to this resolution thus
far but now it appears it is on board
what has changed well there were two
main contention points the first one was
about calling Israel for a ceasefire
that was the initial intent in this
resolution uh American uh diplomats and
the president himself have been
adamantly against it all through the
last weeks of fighting they managed to
carefully um work around that with
calling for a conditions that will allow
some sort of relief in the hostilities
in order to bring in the aid which is
the second uh most problematic uh point
on what would be the mechanism of
bringing Aid in this was the main uh
goal of back and forth negotiations in
the last day mostly between Cairo and
Washington because Egypt is the main
partner uh for the issue of Aid this is
the border with Gaza through which most
of the ID convoys come through um it
seem to finally maybe found a solution
that everybody can agree on Egypt Israel
the Americans and of course uh um the un
uh other members who are uh all voting
for this resolution that point about Aid
was a major part of this resolution that
has been in discussion for quite some
time and now we have a un report which
is warning of possible famine in Gaza
what does that say about the state of
the humanitarian situation in the
territory it's it's dire things are
really really bad I mean we see the
numbers uh piling up we see Gaza used to
have in normal days before October 7th
around 500 um trucks coming in now we're
talking on a good Daye for of about 200
and that's not even taking into
calculation the fact that there were
weeks that there was nothing coming in
um in addition there's a whole
discussion of who gets access to that
Aid once it's in Gaza uh many we hear
complaints of people saying Hamas takes
some of it without letting us in there's
talks about uh the uh the the how
convoluted the whole process is how hard
it is to get all all the aid equally um
uh transferred because it makes it to
the south of the Gaza strep and so it's
very hard for people in the north to
have access to it there's need to be
more work into bringing Aid efficiently
into Gaza now Israel in the middle of
all of this has vowed to essentially
continue fighting until the end until
Hamas is eliminated I'm quoting Benjamin
Netanyahu there and Hamas says that
there has to be a ceasefire before we
can even talk about releasing any more
hostages given that those are the
positions from on both sides uh even if
the UN resol ution passes in whatever
form what is the hope that either side
will follow it unfortunately this
resolution will not be the one making
the difference on the ground you know
Israel is part of the un uh but is not
taking too seriously um any isolation on
or or International threat of of such
isolation because it has American
backing still and Hamas who is also
acknowledged as a as a terror
organization by Israel by the US by the
EU many other uh countries around the
world they do not play according to the
international uh you know standard rule
book So eventually it comes about the
meeting of interest is Hamas feeling
that you know taking some time off and
releasing some of the hostage is going
to benefit uh him and the same thing for
Israel is Israel willing now to take a
step back from fighting in into putting
forward the hostages situation so far uh
there seems to be a deadlock when it
comes to this issue uh and we're not
expected to see anything different in
the next days uh in Gaza unfortunately
DW Middle East analyst Shany rosanas
thanks very much for coming to the
studio and breaking that down for us
you're welcome
be